Ppt customize ribbon (#2250)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/design/custom-tab-placement.md

---
title: Position a custom tab on the ribbon
description: 'Learn how to control where a custom tab appears on the Office ribbon and whether it has focus by default.'
ms.date: 11/01/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Position a custom tab on the ribbon (preview)

You can specify where you want your add-in's custom tab to appear on the Office application's ribbon by using markup in the add-in's manifest.

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: You've included this note and the following IMPORTANT one a couple of times. Would it make sense to create an include file or two?

Author: I'm going to hold off on that for this PR because the PM might want the 2 articles where the Note is to be merged into a single article. The Important note actually has slightly variant test in at least one place where it appears (the 2nd bullet is not there), so using an include would be complicated

> This article assumes that you are familiar with the article [Basic concepts for add-in commands](add-in-commands.md). Please review it if you have not done so recently.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>

> > - The add-in feature and markup described in this article is in preview and is *only available in PowerPoint on the web*. We recommend that you try the markup out in test and development environments only. Do not use preview markup in a production environment or within business-critical documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - The add-in feature and markup described in this article is in preview and is *only available in PowerPoint on the web*. We recommend that you try out the markup in test and development environments only. Do not use preview markup in a production environment or within business-critical documents.
```

> - The markup described in this article only works on platforms that support requirement set **AddinCommands 1.3**. See [Behavior on unsupported platforms](#behavior-on-unsupported-platforms) below.

> You specify where you want a custom tab to appear by identifying which built-in Office tab you want it to be next to and specifying whether it should be on the left or right side of the built-in tab. You make these specifications by including either an [InsertBefore](../reference/manifest/customtab.md#insertbefore) (left) or an [InsertAfter](../reference/manifest/customtab.md#insertafter) element in the [CustomTab](../reference/manifest/customtab.md) (right) element in your add-in's manifest. (You cannot have both elements.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify where you want a custom tab to appear by identifying which built-in Office tab you want it to be next to and specifying whether it should be on the left or right side of the built-in tab. Make these specifications by including either an [InsertBefore](../reference/manifest/customtab.md#insertbefore) (left) or an [InsertAfter](../reference/manifest/customtab.md#insertafter) (right) element in the [CustomTab](../reference/manifest/customtab.md) element of your add-in's manifest. (You cannot have both elements.)
```

In the following example, the custom tab is configured to appear *just after* the **Review** tab. Note that the value of the `<InsertAfter>` element is the ID of the built-in Office tab. 

```xml
<ExtensionPoint xsi:type="ContosoRibbonTab">
  <CustomTab id="TabCustom1">
    <Group id="myCustomTab.group1">
       <!-- additional markup omitted -->
    </Group>
    <Label resid="customTabLabel1" />

>     <InsertAfter>TabReview</InsertAfter>

Reviewer: Is there somewhere that lists the available values for tab names?

Author: Not yet, but there will be. Probably before this goes public. I'll update as needed when that happens.

  </CustomTab>
</ExtensionPoint>
```

> Keep the following points in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep the following points in mind.
```

- The  `<InsertBefore>` and  `<InsertAfter>` elements are optional. If you use neither, then your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon.
- The  `<InsertBefore>` and  `<InsertAfter>` elements are mutually exclusive. You cannot use both.
- If the user installs more than one add-in whose custom tab is configured for the same place, say after the **Review** tab, then the tab for the most recently installed add-in will be located in that place. The tabs of the previously installed add-ins will be moved over one place. For example, the user installs add-ins A, B, and C in that order and all are configured to insert a tab after the **Review** tab, then the tabs will appear in this order: **Review**, **AddinCTab**, **AddinBTab**, **AddinATab**.
- Users can customize the ribbon in the Office application. For example, a user can move or hide your add-in's tab. You cannot prevent this or detect that it has happened.

> - If a user moves one of the built-in tabs, then Office interprets the `<InsertBefore>` and  `<InsertAfter>` elements in terms of *the default location of the built-in tab*. For example, if the user moves the **Review** tab to the right end of the ribbon, Office will interpret the markup in the example above as meaning "put the custom tab just to the right of *where the Review tab would be by default*."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a user moves one of the built-in tabs, then Office interprets the `<InsertBefore>` and  `<InsertAfter>` elements in terms of *the default location of the built-in tab*. For example, if the user moves the **Review** tab to the right end of the ribbon, Office will interpret the markup in the example above as meaning "put the custom tab just to the right of *where the **Review** tab would be by default*."
```

## Specifying which tab has focus when the document opens

> Office always gives default focus to the tab that is immediately to the right of the **File** tab. By default this is the **Home** tab. If you configure your custom tab to be to before the **Home** tab, with `<InsertBefore>TabHome</InsertBefore>`, then your custom tab will have focus when the document opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Office always gives default focus to the tab that is immediately to the right of the **File** tab. By default this is the **Home** tab. If you configure your custom tab to be before the **Home** tab, with `<InsertBefore>TabHome</InsertBefore>`, then your custom tab will have focus when the document opens.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Giving excessive prominence to your add-in inconveniences and annoys users and administrators. Do not position a custom tab before the **Home** tab unless your add-in is the primary tool with which users will interact with the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Giving excessive prominence to your add-in inconveniences and annoys users and administrators. Do not position a custom tab before the **Home** tab unless your add-in is the primary way users will interact with the document.
```

## Behavior on unsupported platforms

> If your add-in is installed on a platform that doesn't support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set in the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Note that the runtime checks described in the article are not applicable to **AddinCommands 1.3** because it contains only manifest markup that is read when the add-in starts up and before a runtime check can occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your add-in is installed on a platform that doesn't support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set in the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Note that the runtime checks described in the article don't apply to **AddinCommands 1.3** because it contains only manifest markup that is read when the add-in starts up and before a runtime check can occur.
```

> If your add-in is installed on a platform that does not support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set to the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Note that the runtime checks that are described in the article are not applicable to **AddinCommands 1.3** because it contains only manifest markup that is read when the add-in starts up and before a runtime check can occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your add-in is installed on a platform that doesn't support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set in the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Note that the runtime checks described in the article are not applicable to **AddinCommands 1.3** because it contains only manifest markup that is read when the add-in starts up and before a runtime check can occur.
```

> If your add-in is installed on a platform that doesn't support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set in the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Alternatively, you can design your add-in to have an alternate experience when **AddinCommands 1.3** is not supported as described in [Use runtime checks in your JavaScript code](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#use-runtime-checks-in-your-javascript-code). For example, if your add-in contains instructions that assume the custom tab is where you want it, you could have an alternate version that assumes the tab is the rightmost.

Reviewer: consider comma before "as described in..."
```suggestion
If your add-in is installed on a platform that doesn't support [requirement set AddinCommands 1.3](../reference/requirement-sets/add-in-commands-requirement-sets.md), then the markup described in this article is ignored and your custom tab will appear as the rightmost tab on the ribbon. To prevent your add-in from being installed on platforms that don't support the markup, add a reference to the requirement set in the `<Requirements>` section of the manifest. For instructions, see [Set the Requirements element in the manifest](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#set-the-requirements-element-in-the-manifest). Alternatively, you can design your add-in to have an alternate experience when **AddinCommands 1.3** is not supported, as described in [Use runtime checks in your JavaScript code](../develop/specify-office-hosts-and-api-requirements.md#use-runtime-checks-in-your-javascript-code). For example, if your add-in contains instructions that assume the custom tab is where you want it, you could have an alternate version that assumes the tab is the rightmost.
```
